In the maximum bipartite matching problem, we have two sets of elements L and R and a set of possible pairings between L and R. This is typically represented as a bipartite graph with $V = L \cup R$ and $E \subseteq L x R$.
A matching is a subset of edges such that no two edges share a vertex. A maximum matching is such a subset of the maximum possible size. 

Maximum bipartite matching is a special case of maximum flow, and so, after constructing the graph, can be solved using any maximum flow algorithm. Constructing the graph is linear in the size of the input $O(|E|)$, and the maximum flow is $O(|V|)$, so even using the basic $O(|E||f|)$ version of Ford-Fulkerson this gives an $O(|V||E|)$ algorithm for maximum bipartite matching.

Since we know the graph to be bipartite and all capacities are 1, we can simplify this algorithm. 

## Hopcroft-Karp Algorithm
- Given a suboptimal matching, an augmenting path can only push flow to the right through unused edges or back to the left by reversing an existing flow.
- A limiting factor in the speed of our algorithm is how quickly we can find such augmenting paths. It would seem that at minimum each path would require an $O(|V|+|E|)$ DFS to find.
- However, can find multiple augmenting paths in batches such that each path is effectively cheaper. Since each path augments the flow network, we must require that no two paths intersect, they must be *vertex-disjoint*. 
- BFS to find a shortest path DAG
- DFS repeatedly to find augmenting paths in this DAG and apply them, until DAG is exhausted
- Repeat until we are unable to find an augmenting path