ONLY occurs when shear force is 0.
**Ultimate bending moment** is the value of bending moment that causes failure of the member. $M_{U}$, at $\sigma_{max}$

Members made of ideal elastoplastic material, linear then to yield point. At low bending moments the beam material is elastic, stress distribution is linear. As bending moment increases, the material at the edges become plastic and yield.
As bending moment increases, the central core is still elastic, the stress distribution is linear in the elastic core and uniform in the plastic zone, cannot be fully plastic as stress is discontinuous at y=0. 

Resultant $R_{y}$ is $\frac{3}{2}$ of the height in either direction from the centroidal axis, when elastic state, $\frac{1}{2}$ in plastic state

**Residual Stress**, when unloading the same as applying load, as unloading begins, the material turns into elastic, reverse stress distribution is superimposed with the stress distribution developed in first loading. Superposition is allowed since in unloading the beam is fully elastic.

#### Eccentric Axial Loading in a Plane of Symmetry
- Loads applied in the plane of symmetry
- Loading through the centroid is centric loading.

#### Unsymmetric Bending 
When there is bending in the components along two planes

#### Shear Force & Bending Moment
**Non-uniform Bending** subject to transverse loads causing the beam to bend, resulting in normal and shear stresses. 
We must know the moment distribution along the beam, the section with the highest $M_{z}$ is most prone to failure as it is linearly related to $\sigma_{m}$ 

When a beam is subjected to only concentrated loads, the shear force is constant between loads and the bending moment varies linearly between loads. In such situations, the shear force and bending-moment diagrams can be easily drawn, once the values of $V$ and $M$ are obtained at sections selected just to the left and just to the right of the points where the loads and reactions are applied. 
When a beam is subjected to only uniformly distributed load, the shear forces changes linearly and the bending moment varies as a parabola.
Bending moment derived is shear force, shear force derived is load

#### Design Procedure
1. Determine $\sigma_{all}$ for the material selected, can be found from properties or $\frac{\sigma_{U}}{Factor of Safety}$ 
2. Draw shear and bending moment diagrams, determine $|M_{max}|$ of the bending moment
3. Determine $S_{min} = \frac{|M_{max}|}{\sigma_{all}}$ for the section modulus
4. Unknown dimensions can be selected according to $\frac{bh^2}{6} = S >= S_{min}$ 

