### What is the Data Link Layer?
- The Data Link Layer provides the following services between the physical and network layers:
	- bundling and unbundling groups of bits into *frames* for the physical layer
	- *throttling* the flow of frames between sender and receiver
	- detecting and correcting "higher-level" transmission errors, such as the sequencing of packets from the network layer
### 3 Levels of Data Link Layer Complexity:
- **Simplex connectionless** - the sender simply sends its frames without waiting for the receiver to acknowledge them. No attempt is made to detect or re-transmit lost frames. Most modern LAN technologies (such as ethernet) use this method and leave error resolution to higher layers. A.K.A. unacknowledged connectionless service.
- **Half-duplex connectionless** - each frame sent is individually acknowledged. Frames which are lost or garbled are retransmitted if the receiver requests them (again) or after a suitable timeout. A.K.A. acknowledged connectionless service.
- **Full-duplex connection-oriented** - each frame is individually numbered and is guaranteed by the data link layer to be received once and only once and in the right order. The result is that the data link layer presents a reliable frame *stream* to the network layer. A.K.A. acknowledged connected service. 

### Some Declarations for Introductory Protocols:
- As our protocols "evolve" we'll need to distinguish different types of data link frames from each other
```
#define MAX_DATA_SIZE 1000

typedef struct {
	int len; //length of the payload
	char data[MAX_DATA_SIZE];
} FRAME;

#define FRAME_HEADER_SIZE (sizeof(FRAME) - sizeof(FRAME.data))
#define FRAME_SIZE(f) (FRAME_HEADER_SIZE + f.len)
```

### The Unrestricted Simplex Protocol:
- Assuming:
	- a (unidirectional) error free channel
	- that the sender's network layer has unlimited data to send (being "pushed down" from above)
	- that the receiver's network layer has an infinite buffer to receive the data (being "pushed up" from below)
	- that the functions READ_xxx_LAYER() and WRITE_xxx_LAYER() block until their actions are complete - they execute synchronously
- **In the Sender:**
```
FRAME frame;
int   len, link = 1;

while( true ) {
    READ_NETWORK_LAYER(frame.data, &len);
    frame.len = len;
    WRITE_PHYSICAL_LAYER(link, &frame, FRAME_SIZE(frame));
}
```
- **In the Receiver:**
```
FRAME frame;
int   len, link;

while( true ) {
    READ_PHYSICAL_LAYER(&link, &frame, &len);
    WRITE_NETWORK_LAYER(frame.data, frame.len);           
}
```

### Software Simulations:
- **Benefits**:
	- Many different aspects can be controlled and examined on very dynamic "networks" - 
		- network topology
		- message arrival rate
		- message size and destination
		- transmission speeds and delays
		- frame corruption and loss
		- extent of node and link failures
		- signal strength and propagation models
		- node mobility
	- Real network infrastructure is *static and too reliable* - error rates on local area networks are too infrequent
	- Centralized control of a network permits the accurate management and collection of statistics and their analysis
- **Pitfalls:**
	- The choice of a simulation environment can constrain the types of practical exercises and discourage creativity 
	- The *wrong* choice of network simulator can seriously impede a student's learning and dissuade experimentation
	- Purpose written simulators have constrained domains - transport-layer protocol testbeds do not actually "transmit" the data frames
	- Very few students are enthused by simulations whose role is to verify or develop statistical models
	- Students can perceive a simulation as something that will never happen
	- Too much control/variation can overwhelm