## Layered Protocols:
1. ***Name the seven layers of the OSI Networking Reference model, from the lowest to the highest.***
	1. Physical
	2. Data-Link
	3. Network
	4. Transport 
	5. Session
	6. Presentation
	7. Application
2. ***List 2 advantages and 2 disadvantages of strictly conforming to a layered networking standard, such as the OSI/ISO networking model.***
	Advantages:
	1. It is a generic model that can be used as a guidance tool to develop a network model
	2. It distinctly separates services, interfaces and protocols, hence it is flexible, one layer can be altered often without affecting others.
	Disadvantages:
	1. It is purely theoretical and does not consider the availability of appropriate technology
	2. There is a duplication of services like error control offered by multiple layers of the model
3. ***Data encryption of network traffic can, arguably, be employed in a number of layers of the OSI/ISO Reference model. If you were to employ encryption in exactly 2 layers, which layers would you choose, and why?***
	In the presentation and 
4. **A system uses an _n-layer_ protocol hierarchy. Applications generate messages of _M_ bytes each. At each of the layers, an *h* byte header is added. What fraction of the network bandwidth is filled with headers?**
	If each n layer adds a header, there ends up being $n . headers$, therefore, the fraction of header in the network bandwidth is:
		$\frac{nh}{M+nh}$

## Physical and Data Link Layer
5. ***Knowing that some typical checksums are only 16 bits long, it appears that a corrupted data frame has a 1 in 216 chance of having the same checksum as its original data frame. Discuss this idea with respect to the design of checksum algorithms.***
	As checksums are used as a quick way to verify whether the original frame has been corrupted by comparing it to the frame that it was sent with, while this does have a random chance of having the same checksum when corrupted, likely due to multiple bits cancelling each other out when being corrupted, however, as a first check to identify any errors in the bit, it drastically reduces the amount of received corrupted data frames, hence improving the overall efficiency. This does however, highlight the fact that other methods should be used in conjunction with checksum to get rid of all corruption cases.
6. ***Local area networks (LANs) employ sophisticated signal encoding techniques, in preference to the naïve (0=low, 1=high) encoding technique. List 2 distinct reasons for employing the sophisticated encoding techniques.***
	Improved signal integrity and reliability: involving techniques such as ensuring regular transitions in the signal to align with clock in order to minimise errors due to noise
	Furthermore, synchronisation and clock recovery techniques are important as if the mid-bit, where there is a transition in the middle of each bit, allows for detection of the clocking, with the transition supplying the data. 
7. **Under what circumstances would the use of Data-Link Layer _frame pipelining_ be unnecessary (a waste of either time or effort)?**
	Frame-pipelining is when multiple frames are transmitted consecutively without waiting for acknowledgement after each frame. This is important when high-latency or long distances are required, however in short distance, low latency, reliable physical medium or simple topologies are present, this is unnecessary. 
8. ***What is the primary motivation for piggy-backed acknowledgements in a Data-Link layer protocol?***
	Piggy-backing is when we delay outgoing acknowledgement and attach it to the next data frame. This raises efficiency of the data-link layer as  in place of two separate messages, one message can be sent with both the data and the previous acknowledgement, reducing the usage of channel bandwidth.
9. ***In some protocol stacks, such as the Internet Protocol (IP) and Asynchronous Transfer Method (ATM) networks, the checksum of network-layer information covers only the header, and not the data. Why do you suppose that this design was chosen?***
	This is likely due to the fact that the header contains a lot of information about the data-packet and is also the part of the packet that interacts with intermediate sources so is most likely to get or "sense" corruption. Therefore, with the checksum being inherently shorter and thus taking up less space, it is more efficient space wise to just send a checksum of the header.
10. **Consider a stop-and-wait protocol that uses only negative acknowledgments (NACKs), and no positive acknowledgments (ACKs). Describe what timeouts would need to be scheduled. Explain why an ACK-based protocol is usually preferred to a NACK-based protocol.**
	There would have to be time-outs that ensure that data packets wait for the amount of time that it would take for a NACK to be returned to the sender to ensure that nothing in that previous package has gone wrong. This then brings in cases of lost or delayed NACK frames, causing unnecessary sent data and also leave ambiguity about the successful transmission of previous frames. 
11. **Within a sliding window Data-Link layer protocol, is it meaningful for the receiver's maximum window size to be larger than the sender's maximum window size? Why or why not?**
	The sliding window protocol refers to how many frames a sender is willing to send before it receives an ACK of the previous frames. It is not meaningful as there is flow control implementation to ensure that the sender does not overwhelm the receiver with too many frames, so having a larger receiving window would not positively impact the speed or efficiency of the network.

## LANs
12. **What is the role of the _preamble_ in IEEE 802 protocols?**
	The preamble serves to reliably get all of the data from a transmitted frame, this is done by synchronising the clocks of receiving and transmitting devices, the preamble signals to the receiver that a data frame is coming and what to expect by its pattern of transitions
13. **Explain the need for both a _minimum_ frame length and a _maximum_ frame length in the IEEE 802.3 Ethernet specification.**
	A minimum frame length is required as if frames were too short, there is a chance that collisions and errors would go unnoticed, and this creating a run on effect for other data frames. A maximum frame length is required so that frames can't use all of the bandwidth of a network, allowing for a more controlled latency for all other senders. 
14. **Outline the difference between _frequency division multiplexing_ and _time division multiplexing_.**
	FDM divides the bandwidth into multiple frequency bands, then the inputs are combined (multiplexed) together for transmission over this frequency channel.
	TDM is where bandwidth is divided into fixed-duration time slots, interleaving together different inputs which are then demultiplexed to put them back together.
15. **Why must IEEE 802.11 wireless networks employ _collision avoidance_ instead of simply _collision detection_?**
	IEEE 802.11 employs collision avoidance as they employ half-duplex transmissions so cannot detect collisions while transmitting, so they must be detected prior to transmission.
