> Given a weighted graph, find shortest paths from each vertex to every other vertex in the graph.

- Repeated Dijkstra's will take `O(|V||E|lg|V|)` time but doesn't work with negative edges.
- An adjacency matrix is already a partial APSP result, as it is the lengths of the shortest paths using at most one edge.
$A = \begin{bmatrix}0 & \infty & 11 \\ 1 & 0 & 4\end{bmatrix}$
- Typically when multiplying matrices C = AB, we take the sum of the element-wise products of each row from the first matrix with each column from the left.
- If instead, we define "multiplication" as the minimum of the element wise sums, we can find the shortest path from `i` to `j` by concatenating a path from A with a path from B:
	$c_{i,j} = min(a_{i,k}+b_{k,j}|k\epsilon [1,|V|])$ 
- By multiplying our adjacency matrix by itself using this form of multiplication, we can find the shortest path using at most two edges
- Each time we multiply by A, the limit on number of edges increases and we get closer to the shortest paths
- To compute each of the $O(|V|^2)$ elements of a matrix multiplication requires zipping two $O(|V|)$ lists, given $O(|V|)$ for $O(|V|^3)$ total for each multiplications
- Since no shortest path will have more than $|V| - 1$ edges, we only need to compute $D^{|V|-1}$ which will take $O(|V|)$ multiplications for $O(|V|^4)$ overall
- Instead of multiplying by $A$ each time, we can square the distance matrix by multiplying it with itself $D^2n = D^n D^n$. To get the power of at least $|V|-1$ takes $\lceil lg(|V|-1)\rceil$ squarings, giving $O(|V|^3lg|V|)$ overall.

## Adjacency Matrix Exponentiation
```python
Weight = float
def apsp_matrix_mult(adjmat: list[list[Weight]]) -> list[list[Weight]]:
	d = adjmat
	v = len(adjmat)
	n = 1
	while n < v - 1:
		n = n + n
		for i in range(v):
			for j in range(v):
				d[i][j] = min(d[i][k] + d[k][j] for k in range(v))
	return d
```

## Floyd-Warshall
- Can we come up with a better DP formulation for this problem?
- The previous recurrence grew paths by length, trying every possible next vertex. But we don't have to only consider appending vertices. Instead of appending k, let us consider the shortest path from $i$ to $j$ that uses $k$ anywhere along its length
- If we have a matrix $D$ of shortest path lengths that do not go through $k$, then the shortest path from each $i$ to $j$ through $k$ will be the shortest path from $i$ to $k$ concatenated with the shortest path from $k$ to $j$. So the shortest path lengths that *may* go through $k$ are then:
$$d'_{i,j} = min(d_{i,j}, d_{i,k}+d_{k,j})$$
```python
Weight = float
def floyd_warshall(adjmat: list[list[Weight]]) -> list[list[Weight]]:
	d = adjmat
	v = len(adjmat)
	for k in range(v):
		for i in range(v):
			for j in range(v):
				d[i][j] = min(d[i][j], d[i][k] + d[k][j])
	return d
```
